Canvas Games
Major Project
Project Title: Tag
General Info
Developer Name:	Zachary Cheng
Type of Game:	Tag game - > 1 person
Target Audience:	People that have friends
Project Summary
Project Description:	You are circles and you run around in a maze. I will also create a map creator if I have time. If you tag another circle, that person will become it, and you will have a speed bonus to run away. There will be a time limit (3 minutes) and the person who has been it the most will lose.
Design Specifications:	Circles, User movement, Map choice, Timer, Collision detection	
Required functionality/Content:	[Summary of what your game will need to do – what are the main features? What content will need to be included?] The game will need to allow for more than one person to move around using a keyboard
Research and Development Required:	How to create a map. Parent & Sub-classes
Project Outline
Detailed Description

The aim of the game is for the ‘it’ person is tag the ‘non-it'.
Plot:

In the beginning, there were 5 gods. 
Each owned their own respective power. 
Fire, ice, ground, wind and magic, these five gods were extremely powerful.
For hundreds of eons, these 5 gods lived in accordence with three rules.
1. Don't touch other gods
2. Don't meddle with matters not your own
3. Don't create any other sentient beings
It was until the 142nd recursion of the universe, when the magic god, bored with his life chose to break the most important rule, the third one.
He made a creature with magic, which he called a human, which was capable of replicating the basic features of each god.
He had to sacrifice a bit of himself to make each human, so each human was capable of magic.

The other four gods made a prison, with their elements, using fire to create a core, ice and fire to create an ocean,
ground to create land and wind to fill it with an atmosphere.
This was a prison, created to hold the magic god for an eternity.

After countless eras of wasting away, the magic god was nothing but a touch.
Unable to do anything, he could only transfer himself from host to host, if they had magic capabilities like he once did.

21st century...
Tag. Many kids have played the game, but unbeknownst to them, they have been playing a game that has is as old as their species.
The 'it' as they call it these days is actually an ancient being, so split up that he is incapable of producing a single thought.
However, this century, there has been an creation of the great tag games and all the best 'taggers' in the world have come together to a single place.

Suprisingly, you and your three friends have found your way to the top of the tournement.
The timer starts, 10, 9,8...
You prepare yourself for when the timer hits zero but...it doesn't?
"Nani?" you whisper to yourself.	
You are in a maze, seperated by your friends when you recieve a message;
"One of you has the enemy, a god, which we must destroy
The one that is tagged the longest will have the most essence of him, and will therefore be eliminated
You have each been assigned an element, to help you in your task
There is no escape, there is no breaking out, there is only running
Let the games begin"

Game –
The game will be played with a keyboard, preferably all on one keyboard. Everyone fitting on one keyboard may be squishy but it will do.
The controls for players are (Right, Left, Up, Down) 1. ADWS 2. FHTG 3. JLIK 4. (Arrow Keys)

The game will work by having individual players running (maybe a single player mode – coming soon) away from each other.

Scoring will work by having a timer on each player, and the player with the highest timer loses.


Key Features
 [Must have/non-negotiable]
Object movement via user input
Walls that stop movement
Touching other people makes them it
[Should have]
Different types of maps for choice
[Nice to have]
Special powers for each player
Menu
Moving walls with levers
[Trimmings]
Portals
More than 4 types
Map creator
Single player mode for when you have no friends

Design Requirements
Technical requirements
Input/Output Requirements
Keyboard information
System Requirements
Computer with keybaord
Development Requirements
Brackets, browser, keyboard
UI Design 
Users will interact using the keyboard 
Program Design

Object	Properties	Methods
Player	x , y , dx , dy , special ability , isIt , colour , starting corner, time it, direction facing	Draw , move , special ability, 
Wall	x, y , moving(maybe), colour, 	draw, move(optional)
		
		

Milestones

Task	Completion Time	Completed
[Task/step description]	[Time to complete]	[Y/N and date]
e.g. Program Description	Day 2	Y
Basic Player using ball	Day 3	Y
Basic Player touching wall	Day 5	Y
Easy way to create a map	Day 7	Y
Two players ‘it’	Day 9 	Y
Introducing Gravity Day 12 Y
Ladders and platforms Day 13 Y
Other features to add Day 17 Y
Playing with friends Day 20 Y



